!SLIDE section

# Secondary Indexes

## Making Querying Easier

!SLIDE bullets incremental

# Secondary Indexes (2I)

* Search is too heavyweight
* Key-Value doesn't fit everything
* Key-filters (list-keys) doesn't scale well
* DIY indexes are hard

<div class="notes hidden">

Riak Search requires schemas and the specification of analyzers up
front.  The key-value model doesn't fit all types of queries you might
want to perform, causing you to create extra keys in places or do
other expensive computations up-front. Key-filters are based on
list-keys and as such don't scale incredibly well. They also force you
to put lookup information as part of the key, making them longer and
requiring parsing.  Making your own secondary indexes is hard,
especially with respect to consistency. So we created 2I to handle
these problems.

</div>

!SLIDE bullets

# Design of 2I

* Defined as object metadata
* Stored on same vnodes as object
* Queries use new "coverage" ops

<div class="notes hidden">

Storing the index information as object metadata and in the same
vnodes as the object makes index creation, handoff and consistency
much simpler. However, it means that you have to query by hitting a
"covering set" of vnodes, that is, about 1/N of the vnodes in the
cluster are queried.

</div>

!SLIDE small code

# Simple Equality Example

    @@@ sh
    $ export RIAK=http://localhost:8098/
    
    $ curl -X PUT \
      -H "x-riak-index-email_bin: sean@basho.com" \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -d '{"name":"Sean","email":"sean@basho.com"}' \
      $RIAK/riak/p/sean

    $ curl $RIAK/buckets/p/index/email_bin/sean@basho.com
    {"keys":["sean"]}

!SLIDE small code

# Equality + MapReduce

    @@@ sh
    $ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" $RIAK/mapred \
        -d @-    
    {"inputs":{
        "bucket":"p",
        "index":"email_bin",
        "key":"sean@basho.com"
        },
     "query":[
        {"map":{"name":"Riak.mapValuesJson",
                "language":"javascript",
                "keep":true}}
       ]}

    [{"name":"Sean","email":"sean@basho.com"}]         

!SLIDE small code

# Simple Range Example

    @@@ sh
    $ curl -X PUT \
      -H "x-riak-index-age_int: 32" \
      -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
      -d '{"name":"Sean","email":"sean@basho.com"}' \
      $RIAK/riak/p/sean

    $ curl $RIAK/buckets/p/index/age_int/25/35
    {"keys":["sean"]}

!SLIDE small code

# Range + MapReduce

    @@@ sh
    $ curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" $RIAK/mapred \
        -d @-    
    {"inputs":{
        "bucket":"p",
        "index":"age_int",
        "start":25,
        "end":35
        },
     "query":[
        {"map":{"name":"Riak.mapValuesJson",
                "language":"javascript",
                "keep":true}}
       ]}

    [{"name":"Sean","email":"sean@basho.com"}]         

!SLIDE bullets incremental

# 2I Use-Cases

* Secondary lookups (non-key)
* High-cardinality relationships (1-MANY)
* Range scans
* Multi-valued fields

!SLIDE bullets incremental

# Limited Features in 1.0

* **NO** Multi-index queries
* **NO** SQL-ish Query language
* **NO** Sorting / Pagination
* Strings and integers **ONLY** 
* LevelDB **ONLY**

<div class="notes hidden">

For the first release, we decided to focus on correctness and
reliability at the expense of feature-completeness. Secondary indexes
will get continued attention following the 1.0 release.

</div>
